this video is neither cheerleading for
one side nor the other the purpose of
this video is not to celebrate sargon of
akkad and it's also not to condemn
sargon of akkad
it's neither to justify YouTube's
unpredictable censorship policies nor is
it to condemn them this is an occasion
for all YouTube creators to wake up and
be reminded that one YouTube is just a
website and to success on YouTube by
definition means quitting YouTube means
moving off of YouTube ok very briefly
I'm going to explain to you what I mean
about 10 years ago you might have known
some of these people there were people
who were just like swept up in their
success on Facebook they had a Facebook
group or a Facebook page and maybe it
got featured in the local newspaper or
the local radio station or something or
sometimes even a big TV station like CNN
said oh there's a there's a new Facebook
page for fans of the original pac-man
video game and they got 1 million people
coming to this Facebook pitch I don't
know if any of those Facebook people
ever said to you that they were going to
quit their job and do Facebook full-time
the wait today it's completely normal
for people to say they're gonna quit
their job and do YouTube full-time but
you might have known some people 10
years ago who were so swept up in the
success of a Facebook page or a facebook
project that they sort of lost sight of
the fact that Facebook is just a website
and whatever their project was on
Facebook to really be successful okay
now you've got this attention now you've
got a million people interested or a
thousand people interest you have to
take the next step to get off Facebook
whether that's on to your own website
starting your own business or somehow or
another getting out into the real world
right so like I knew people I guess
ten years ago rounding off new people
doing like political activism of
different kinds and they would get
really caught up in the success
sometimes of like a single image like a
single meme or poster or something they
post on the Internet and it's like dude
okay if this is success then you got to
think about next steps you can't get
caught up in this website about five
years ago maybe seven years ago now this
also happened with tumblr briefly people
would have like a fantastically
successful tumblr page which again it
might have been built on the success of
like one image one mean that people
loved or something and it's like dude
tumblr is not your career and whatever
it is you're trying to accomplish
whether it's you know something as
simple as like a video game fan club or
you know a movie review channel or
something or if it's something more like
political activism or you know news
commentary commentary on current events
or something you've got to think about
the next step because like by definition
no matter how much success you have
within that platform if you can't step
off of that platform into something real
er into real life into the real world
that success is a failure okay
today in the year 2020 that's easy to
see with those other websites I just
mentioned right like the greatest level
of success you can possibly attain on
Facebook is basically a failure it's
still meaningless it doesn't mean
anything and any point like that had
nothing to do with you right like your
merit or your video I'm the on the
administrator of one of the biggest
discussion groups for vegans in Japan on
Facebook I think it's the second biggest
for vegans in Japan means nothing I mean
like well I have the ability to kick
people out of that group I guess like
well if I want to go mad with power and
feeling like I'm successful and it had
nothing to do with me
like I used to be studying Japanese and
not anymore and a whole lot of people
signed up for that
for all I know maybe it was featured in
the local newspaper or something maybe
you so many people signed up to join
that group for some wacky reason like
that I don't know and I don't care ok
we're at a stage right now in 2020 where
that delusion that YouTube is something
much more than Facebook or tumblr or
Twitter people haven't quite broken out
of it yet
we just heard sargon of akkad say that
he feels he should be treated better by
YouTube because he got a total of
something like 50 billion views you know
whether or not that number is correct
whether it is 50 million or 500 million
or 5 billion or 50 billion you get to
define what is success relative to your
category what you're trying to entertain
you might be doing something that's a
real niche market and there only are a
few thousand viewers you can possibly
reach like the maximum size of the
audience what you do might be pretty
small or it might be 10 million it might
be some proximate number like this
that's attainable
once you've attained that think about
the next steps because there's no way to
succeed here within YouTube with this
so-called fame that's just making money
for Google corporation just making money
for YouTube corporation where you take
on none of the risk you take on none of
the responsibility you also get none of
the money and you don't accomplish
anything in the real world right
like I mean think about the website read
it whatever the topic is you're dressed
in maybe you want to talk about politics
maybe you want to do movie reviews I'll
just stick to those two examples okay it
doesn't matter how successful you are
doing commentary on reddit you might be
you'd have to imagine the type of
personality would be like that so if you
like the person who is obsessed with
their Facebook page there every time
they post something on reddit they get
1,000 thumbs up they get 10,000 thumbs
up it's not even a thumb on right it's
an arrow right whatever they're posting
these things maybe they have their own
reddit discussion forum they're all
they're all full
you know excitement about how great this
is posting already if that's your friend
you've saved them look if you're serious
about this kind of right now you want to
write film criticism you want to do
political commentary okay you have to
think about getting out of Reddit and
doing this on paper publishing a
magazine or hey baby steps how about you
start your own website that you know
does what reddit does but for you on
your rules on your terms
and where you're paying the bills you're
ultimately paying for the electricity
that makes that website run right you're
taking the risks you know even an issue
and it'd that that was a huge part of
his channels growth he didn't rely on
reddit he didn't rely on YouTube he set
up his own websites plural with his own
discussion forums of course he later ran
that into the ground and deleted it all
so the story but like it's remarkable
how rare it is for people to step away
from depending on this kind of corporate
platform that's being provided for you
to just try to start your own platform
right and like some of you guys might
think that there's like a huge risk
involved in printing something on paper
not really so like instead of spending
your time writing these articles that go
on reddit what about you have your own
website with your own discussion forum
you're doing the writing and
periodically you're gathering it
together even if you just is
self-published books on Amazon or
something
there are ways you can step it up and
make your efforts count in the real
world the technology were relying on
here on YouTube it has existed for at
least 20 years YouTube itself is 15
years old this website and the
technology exists at least five years
before that right this is 20 year old
technology can anyone remember PewDiePie
complaining that he was going to delete
his channel I forget this a couple years
ago he was he was angry at YouTube for
suppressing his channel for not
promoting his channel where they used to
he was getting fewer views he had these
complaints about the way YouTube was
managed editorial decisions and so on
and he said he was gonna delete his
channel and quit YouTube now he later
said that was a joke that he didn't mean
it seriously nevertheless he was come
cleaning about what he didn't like what
you do don't you think PewDiePie could
organize a conference call with some
computer programmers in Silicon Valley
and create his own website where he
directly upload some videos like do you
want it like estimate the budget for
that at this point like there are so
many website providing services there's
some of us you can get your own domain
and you can start uploading your own
videos to your own platforms on your own
terms and again have your own comment
section have your own discussion forum
so if you're somebody like Sargon of a
cat and you feel accomplished because
you hit fifty billion views in total
right sure it's a market economy but for
some of you people if you have a YouTube
channel that's about knitting or about
some very specific category within
politics or something all right it might
be you have five million views you say
okay I've done everything YouTube can do
for me in the same way that someone
who's successful as a writer on reddit
still has to become a real writer if
you're successful as a filmmaker on
YouTube you still have to become a real
filmmaker if you're successful doing
political commentary on Facebook and
Twitter and Tumblr you still have to
think about the next steps to being
successful doing political analysis and
political commentary in the real world
and you know the Internet will still be
part of that you may still have a
website you may you may have a charity
that receives donations you may form a
political action committee it's an
American term you may start a foundation
or a charity or you know you may
register it and make it real in the real
world in some sense and it may still be
that ninety percent of what you do
happens over the Internet
you know even when you publish something
on paper it might be ten percent of the
people by the book on paper and ninety
percent of them get it as a PDF in the
internet that kind of thing is common
now I'm not here saying the internet by
definition is less Rijo right some of as
it is I mean if your if your aspiration
is to get out in the real world to make
a political difference through activism
of some kind what
ever it is if you want to make the world
a different place by opening a
restaurant of your own or by publishing
a book of restaurant criticism maybe you
publish annually you collect together
your reviews of all the best and worst
restaurants in the city you live in you
want that book to exist on paper and
other people will get it as an app for
their mobile phone or whatever okay look
it's a good example at some point if
you're serious about doing restaurant
reviews you have to stop submitting them
to yelp.com stop submitting your
restaurant reviews to Google Maps you
know there are all these corporations
that will take your hard work and
they'll make money out of it for free at
some point you have to recognize YouTube
is just a website and the only way to
win is to walk away try to achieve
something outside of that website and
very often that's gonna involve creating
a website of your own creating a
so-called ecosystem of your own you're
gonna stop being a free rider on the you
know the platform that YouTube created
for you or the platform that Facebook
created for you right which makes it
easy for hobbyists makes it easy for
people like me but ultimately it's
limiting its it's like a skin that you
have to shed like a snake molting its
skin as soon as you hit that point
whatever it is that defined success for
you success in nexor ibly requires you
to quit YouTube